feat: add article about Kubernetes prescaling opensourcing (#368)
BedrockStreaming/tech.bedrockstreaming.com: _posts/2022-09-01-kubernetes-prescaling-we-open-source-our-solution.md

---
layout: post

> title: Prescaling pods in Kubernetes, we open source our solution

Reviewer: "we open source" au present simple, ça correspond à une vérité générale et pas à "nous le faisons à l'instant présent par le biais de ce post". est-ce ce que vous cherchez ?

Author: On cherche à annoncer le fait que notre solution est disponible en opensource. Elle existait déjà, le repo est opensourcé depuis quelques semaine, c'est juste l'annonce pour informer.

description: Reactive scaling in k8s is not always enough. We have built a solution and we share it with everyone now!
author: [j_planckeel, v_chabrier]
tags: [k8s, kuernetes, pods, prometheus, scaling, hpa, resiliency, go, prescaling, opensource]
color: rgb(251,87,66) # this is Bedrock color here
---

Previously we [discussed](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/2022/02/03/prescaling.html) how we manage the load of our Kubernetes clusters and how we can anticipate our needs with prescaling. Today, we are here to share our solution that we have reworked and open sourced! 

> ![BedrockStreaming Logo](/images/posts/2022-09-01-kubernetes-prescaling-we-open-source-our-solution/br-opensource.png) 

Author: Me too, but we are not designers and Bedrock's designers will take some time to do it, so maybe later :)

> At [Bedrock Streaming](https://www.bedrockstreaming.com/), we provide streaming platforms for customers (6play, Salto, Videoland and many others), we have a good knowledge of the daily load peaks and we know in advance the programs that are likely to generate a lot of traffic. We can therefore not only rely on reactive scaling which has its limits (cf. https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/2022/02/03/prescaling.html) but also on prescaling. 

Author: ```suggestion
At [Bedrock Streaming](https://www.bedrockstreaming.com/), we provide streaming platforms for customers (6play, Salto, Videoland and many others), we have a good knowledge of the daily load peaks and we know in advance the programs that are likely to generate a lot of traffic. We can therefore not only rely on reactive scaling which has its limits (cf. [prescaling article](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/2022/02/03/prescaling.html)) but also on prescaling. 
```

You must have the following bricks installed in your cluster: 
   * `Prometheus` Stack or `Victoria Metrics Stack`
   * `Prometheus Adapter`

It is possible to use another metrics stack but we do not provide an example at this time. 

Clone the repo and run the following command with Helm3: 

```bash
helm install prescaling-exporter ./helm/prescaling-exporter -n prescaling-exporter --create-namespace
```

You will need to add the following configuration to Prometheus adapter: 

```
- "metricsQuery": "avg(<<.Series>>{<<.LabelMatchers>>})"
    "name":
      "as": "prescale_metric"
    "resources":
      "overrides":
        "namespace":
          "resource": "namespace"
    "seriesQuery": "prescale_metric"
```

### Daily prescaling event 

We have chosen to manage the configuration of daily events directly on the HPA of the applications. Here is how to activate it, through annotations:

```yaml
apiVersion: autoscaling/v2beta1
kind: HorizontalPodAutoscaler
metadata:
  name: "{{ .Release.Name }}"
  annotations:
    annotations.scaling.exporter.replica.min: "{{ .Values.hpa.annotations.replica_min }}"
    annotations.scaling.exporter.time.end: "{{ .Values.hpa.annotations.time_end }}"

>     annotations.scaling.exporter.time.start: "{{ .Values.hpa.annotations.time_start }}"

Reviewer 2: Today, I think annotations have a possible simple naming, without the `annotations.*` which was redundant, like : 

```yaml
  annotations:
    scaling.exporter.replica.min: "{{ .Values.hpa.annotations.replica_min }}"
    scaling.exporter.time.end: "{{ .Values.hpa.annotations.time_end }}"
    scaling.exporter.time.start: "{{ .Values.hpa.annotations.time_start }}"
```

Author: I understand that but it will require to modify the prescaling, but you can open the PR we have opensourced the projet :p

Reviewer 2: That's something I asked to @villers and you (I beleive) during the rewrite process, months ago.
I'm sure @villers can confirm.

What are you saying I spoke in a vacuum?

Author: Yep it's configurable via an env var but here it's the default values. But here do not review the open prescaling but the article :p

spec:
  metrics:
  - type: External
    external:
      metricName: "prescaling_metric"
      metricSelector:
          matchLabels:
            deployment: "{{ .Release.Name }}"
      targetValue: 10
```

> You will be able to control the start and end time of your prescaling and the minimum number of pods you want during that window. Please note that if the number of pods you want for the prescaling is lower than the current number of pods, the solution will not downscale the application and the hpa will continue to behave as usual.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will be able to control the start and end time of your prescaling and the minimum number of pods you want during that window. Please note that if the number of pods you want for the prescaling is lower than the current number of pods, the solution will not downscale the application and the HPA will continue to behave as usual.
```

> You will be able to control the start and end time of your prescaling and the minimum number of pods you want during that window. Please note that if the number of pods you want for the prescaling is lower than the current number of pods, the solution will not downscale the application and the hpa will continue to behave as usual.

Reviewer 3: I would rewrite this paragraph, changing "You" by "We":
1. nobody's using it right now, we explain to them how we do and how they can do the same -> "we" is the source.
2. it feels weird to me when people try to tell me what to do instead on giving me how they fixed problems and increased quality of their service -> "you" feels like bad marketing to me :/

> You will be able to control the start and end time of your prescaling and the minimum number of pods you want during that window. Please note that if the number of pods you want for the prescaling is lower than the current number of pods, the solution will not downscale the application and the hpa will continue to behave as usual.

Author: Here is a tuto on how we install the prescaling not a description of how we handle a problem

> You will be able to control the start and end time of your prescaling and the minimum number of pods you want during that window. Please note that if the number of pods you want for the prescaling is lower than the current number of pods, the solution will not downscale the application and the hpa will continue to behave as usual.

Author: we rewrite some parts with the "we" :)

### One-time events

> You can also record one-off events. For example, at Bedrock Streaming, during an important soccer match, we will record a special event in a Custom Resource Definition. 

Reviewer 3: again, I'd better say "we're also using the prescaling to X and Y situations", using mostly "we"

> One-time events allow to prescale all applications having annotations on their hpa by multiplying their prescaling minimum replicas (`annotations.scaling.exporter.replica.min`) by the multiplier of the event in question.

Reviewer 2: Same thing (it's redundant) : 

`annotations.scaling.exporter.replica.min` => `scaling.exporter.replica.min`

> One-time events allow to prescale all applications having annotations on their hpa by multiplying their prescaling minimum replicas (`annotations.scaling.exporter.replica.min`) by the multiplier of the event in question.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One-time events allow to prescale all applications having annotations on their HPA by multiplying their prescaling minimum replicas (`scaling.exporter.replica.min`) by the multiplier of the event in question.
```

To record a one-time event, an OpenAPI UI (formerly known as Swagger) is exposed by the prescaling exporter at the url `/swagger/index.html`. You can also register a new event from here or directly by making an api call to the following address `/api/v1/events/`. 

> ![BedrockStreaming Logo](/images/posts/2022-09-01-kubernetes-prescaling-we-open-source-our-solution/post-prescaling-event.png) 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![Screenshot POST prescaling event](/images/posts/2022-09-01-kubernetes-prescaling-we-open-source-our-solution/post-prescaling-event.png) 
```

## What’s next?

> We will continue improving the solution. For example, we are thinking about removing the annotations on HPAs to replace them with a new dedicated CRD.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We will continue to improve the solution. For example, we are thinking about removing annotations on HPAs and replacing them with a new dedicated CRD.
```

---
layout: post
title: Prescaling pods in Kubernetes, we open source our solution
description: Reactive scaling in k8s is not always enough. We have built a solution and we share it with everyone now!
author: [j_planckeel, v_chabrier]
tags: [k8s, kubernetes, pods, prometheus, scaling, hpa, resiliency, go, prescaling, opensource]
color: rgb(251,87,66) # this is Bedrock color here
---

Previously we [discussed](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/2022/02/03/prescaling.html) how we manage the load of our Kubernetes clusters and how we can anticipate our needs with prescaling. Today, we are here to share our solution that we have reworked and open sourced! 
![BedrockStreaming Logo](/images/posts/2022-09-01-kubernetes-prescaling-we-open-source-our-solution/br-opensource.png) 

> At [Bedrock Streaming](https://www.bedrockstreaming.com/), we provide streaming platforms to our customers (6play, Salto, Videoland and many others), we have a good knowledge of the daily load peaks and we know in advance the programs that are likely to generate a lot of traffic. We can therefore rely not only on reactive scaling, which has its limits (cf. [prescaling article](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/2022/02/03/prescaling.html)) but also on prescaling. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
At [Bedrock Streaming](https://www.bedrockstreaming.com/), we provide streaming platforms to our customers (6play, Salto, Videoland, and many others), we have a good knowledge of the daily load peaks and we know in advance the programs that are likely to generate a lot of traffic. We can therefore rely not only on reactive scaling, which has its limits (cf. [prescaling article](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/2022/02/03/prescaling.html)) but also on prescaling. 
```

```bash
helm install prescaling-exporter ./helm/prescaling-exporter -n prescaling-exporter --create-namespace
```

It's required to add the following configuration to Prometheus adapter: 

```
- "metricsQuery": "avg(<<.Series>>{<<.LabelMatchers>>})"
    "name":
      "as": "prescale_metric"
    "resources":
      "overrides":
        "namespace":
          "resource": "namespace"
    "seriesQuery": "prescale_metric"
```

### Daily prescaling event 

We have chosen to manage the configuration of daily events directly on the HPA of the applications. Here is how to activate it, through annotations:

```yaml
apiVersion: autoscaling/v2beta1
kind: HorizontalPodAutoscaler
metadata:
  name: "{{ .Release.Name }}"
  annotations:
    annotations.scaling.exporter.replica.min: "{{ .Values.hpa.annotations.replica_min }}"
    annotations.scaling.exporter.time.end: "{{ .Values.hpa.annotations.time_end }}"
    annotations.scaling.exporter.time.start: "{{ .Values.hpa.annotations.time_start }}"
spec:
  metrics:
  - type: External
    external:
      metricName: "prescaling_metric"
      metricSelector:
          matchLabels:
            deployment: "{{ .Release.Name }}"
      targetValue: 10
```

> We are able to control the start and end time of the prescaling and the minimum number of pods we want during this window. Please note that if the number of pods we want for prescaling is less than the current number of pods, the solution will not downscale the application and the HPA will continue to behave as usual.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We can control the start and end time of the prescaling and the minimum number of pods we want during this window. Please note that if the number of pods we want for prescaling is less than the current number of pods, the solution will not downscale the application and the HPA will continue to behave as usual.
```
